[Music]
evening ladies and gentlemen my name is
David Thoreau and I'm the president of
the independent Institute we're so
delighted to welcome you all to our
special program with our friend Tucker
Carlson the sworn enemy of lying
pomposity smugness and groupthink and
he'll be speaking we believe regarding
his new number-one New York Times
best-selling book ship of fools how a
selfish ruling class is bringing America
to the brink of revolution for those of
you new to the independent Institute you
can find information on the printed
program that hopefully everyone received
the independent Institute is a nonprofit
nonpartisan public policy research
organization we sponsor in-depth studies
of major social and economic issues we
have about 140 fellows and the purpose
of this is to both the advance peaceful
prosperous and free societies commit
with a commitment to human Worth and
dignity in the process we seek robust
dialogue on key issues and we stand
against efforts to show to shut down the
free exchange of ideas and Tucker of
course is a leader in doing that
the results of our work are published as
books and other publications and form
the basis for numerous conference and
media programs
neither cept accepting or seeking
government funding we hope that you'll
all join with us
as a member of the lighthouse society
before I begin however I want to thank
our board member dr. David T's who's
here tonight
David is chairman and CEO of the
birthday research group and the Thomas
toosha professor of Business at the
University of California at Berkeley my
alma mater David provided the wonderful
view Mount beautiful wines from New
Zealand that we've been enjoying this
evening so I want to thank David in
particularly in his work tucker carlson
has been sounding a clarion call
regarding america's elites a group whose
status wealth and blind belief and
government power have grown beyond
imagination even as the rest of society
has floundered in his path-breaking 1776
book The Wealth of Nations Adam Smith
refuted that mercantilist system of
government privileges as a result and
under the leadership of the businessman
Richard Cobden and John bright the so
called Manchester League movement of
working-class people arose swept into
power and abolished mercantilism
unleashing entrepreneurial freedom and
markets that uplifted the lives of the
entire British nation today under the
secular religion of progressivism the
people of run America for many many
decades and profit from neo mercantilism
now barely interact with America indeed
they despise it in his book ship of
fools Tucker offers a blistering
critique of this ruling class or what
the political scientists Angela Koda via
calls America's political class
traditional liberals who as civil
libertarians once defended free speech
and due process have been replaced by
authoritarians
whose art hard-edged agenda and hunt
unhinged identity politics is now on
parade for all to see
in the process they'll not hesitate to
fleece you while lecturing you about
bathrooms plastic straws and safe places
left and right Tucker says are no longer
meaningful categories in America the
rift between those who benefit from the
status quo and those who don't our
leaders our fools Tucker concludes quote
unaware that they are captains of a
sinking ship unquote in a signature
fearless and witty style Tucker is
addressing the all-important question
how do we put the country back on course
and Americans are indeed listening now
Tucker Carlson is the host as you all
know of Tucker Carlson tonight on the
Fox News Channel I first had the
pleasure of working with Tucker when he
was on the editorial staff for the
journal policy review years ago with the
Heritage Foundation
he has since flown and was host of the
MSNBC Tucker program Tucker he was
co-host of CNN's crossfire and spin room
and he is co-founder and former
editor-in-chief of The Daily Caller
also author of the book politics
partisans and parasites my adventures in
cable news he was a recipient of the
Warren Brooks Award for Excellence in
Journalism and you can read more about
his background in the program but I will
simply add that he was born in San
Francisco and raised in California so
please enjoy
[Applause]
so please join with me in welcoming
Tucker Carlson
[Applause]
but thank you David that was so nice I'm
definitely I'm definitely from
California and it's it's just so nice
and also sort of wildering to be here
every time I come back to the state I I
think I mean I grew up in the state the
proudest purse the proudest California
and maybe ever and I grew up in a family
from the state that came here in the
1850s and literally never stopped
talking about how great the state was
how great they were actually also but it
was sort of a non-stop barrage of
propaganda for my entire childhood about
how basically anyone who didn't live
here was unfortunate
don't tell them because they might move
here was the view but we really
considered California Eden I did for
sure it was born here as David just said
Children's Hospital in California Street
lived in Pacific Heights moved to LA and
then La Jolla I never thought I would
leave one of the many lists of the many
things I never thought I would do I
never thought I'd be up here defending
1970s liberalism like free speech and
due process what I never thought I would
think of myself as a civil libertarian I
never understood why civil liberties
might matter or I never understood that
maybe the threat to speech might come
from large corporations like Google that
never entered my mind ever a lot of
things never entered my mind but it's a
completely different country from the
one I grew up in and so some of my
assumptions have changed and let me just
say by the way what a deep pleasure it
is to be in a room full of normal people
I mean this really is this is no I'm not
kidding one other and I have a million
obviously relatives in California and
you know they're all from this area they
all went to cow tear people from you
know Piedmont and Alameda and Oakland
where my grandmother grew up it's just
so weird and nice and it just reminds me
of how I grew up I mean this wrong
people like you so it's very reassuring
um I would say to know that that
California still exists um but I wrote
this book because I started brooding I'm
gonna host a daily show at Fox and I
have four kids and two dogs and like
going on those through last thing I want
to do is write a book since they're
they're really hard to write and I felt
a moral obligation to write it myself
which is not the way you sort of do it
in TV you know what it means it's like
you see some with the cable shows doing
you know Alexander Hamilton's fiscal
policy explained probably didn't write
it okay just throwing that out there
uh-huh but I actually wanted to write
this because I found myself brooding on
a single question and I'm hardly an
intellectual or a profound abstract
thinker I mean I'm literally a talk-show
host okay so I don't want to kind of
pretend that I'm something I'm not and
by the way I should say this book is not
a sort of populist war cry as it's been
described by people I'm not a populist I
mean I'm literally from Pacific Heights
La Jolla and Georgetown so it's not like
I'm I'm here to give you the view from
coal country or something I'm not you
know what I mean I'm not gonna pose but
the question that I couldn't get over
was why did America elect Donald Trump
and it's one of those questions so I
covered the campaign and then
immediately after the campaign got a
nightly show and so I didn't have that
much time to stand back from it to sort
of consider this but it was such a
glaring question because it was such an
unexpected outcome that I expected at
some point it would be the topic of
national conversation how did this
happen whether you're for it or not and
if you know I work at Fox I actually
agree with a lot of what Trump says that
doesn't make his election any less
remarkable it was totally unexpected by
everyone including him no it's just true
it's not right I mean like nobody
expected this so where I live in
Northwest DC washington DC not the state
you know this was deeply unwelcome news
I mean people really don't like Trump
you think they don't like him in the Bay
Area you don't think they don't like him
at Presidio Heights usually go come to
where I live which is ninety-six percent
for Hillary Clinton and the rest for
like the weed party or something our
know our third party candidates
outperform Trump every single one of
them so Donald Trump is the nightmare of
my neighbors all of them
the three Republicans in my zip code Idi
Amin would get a warmer welcome in our
dog park I'm not no no exaggeration so
they were completely horrified I was on
the set and Fox in New York on election
night in my next-door neighbor whom I
loved
whose are kind of moderate actually
pretty conservative Democrat worked for
Bill Clinton as a consultants been
successful very good guy and really on
the moderate and the conservative end
especially in the social issues if you
would all like him
of the Democratic Party text me to say
we're leaving and I said where are you
going sinner no we're leaving
permanently and I said are you gonna
sell your house because I don't know
we're just leaving you know we're going
to New Zealand I said what can I use
your pool when you're gone I didn't
really it's hard to tell you this
someone who covers campaigns it's sort
of hard to take the hysteria too
seriously because it's a perennial event
we're gonna have another election right
and if you don't like the outcome this
time presumably you can change the
outcome next time right that's our
system so it's not really the end of the
world it's the changing temporarily of
the guard and that's okay it's happened
before people I don't care for have won
elections and I didn't abandon my house
right in response but that was really
their feeling and it wasn't Mitch it was
a conventional stages of grief thing you
know they felt deeply threatened by
Trump personally they could not control
Trump that was really the key to what I
realized later he was not recognizable
to them it wasn't that he was some right
winger he wasn't actually he wasn't even
really a Republican so for four
generations for my whole life
you would hear from the left Greenham
growing up here I would always hear this
if the right ever takes charge they're
you know they're gonna impose the
theocracy you know Jerry Falwell will be
President remember that and you know the
only person I ever met growing up who
went to church was our housekeeper no
I'm serious like I grew up in a totally
I mean I was baptized in Grace Cathedral
actually by my uncle the bishop and that
was kind of the last time I appeared in
church you know until I was an adult so
the left was very concerned that the
right was comprised of these snake
handlers from deep in Alabama somewhere
we were going to impose a kind of Old
Testament version of government on the
rest of us but when it really happened
we got kind of the opposite actually
Trump is not a theocrats a blow your
minds in fact the friend of mine did the
famous interview with him where he asked
Trump you know what's your favorite book
of the Bible and Trump goes well the
Bible my friend said no no but like
what's your favorite book of the Bible
it's from kind of narrowed his eyes
because he knew was a trick question he
goes the Bible okay totally unaware
their component books within so we
didn't get a theocrats um one who was
rigorously loyal to this for talking
points of institutional conservatism
that's for sure not even familiar with
some of them
so we got something very different from
what they feared and they hated him more
why it's kind of interesting why cuz
he's so right no because they could not
control him and because his message was
aimed at them that's what it was really
about at them when he said in effect
look around is the country richer than
it was before the financial crash no
drive from DC to Pittsburgh you drive
through towns with ten thousand people
don't have a car dealership it's
certainly true in this state Drive
citizen I bought a family a nag to this
day they're doing great by the way the
Bowles family great people but drive to
where they live and you drive through
Victor Davis Hanson we have on all the
time from up here is a wonderful man is
this sixth generation Central Valley
farm family you know he lives in the
same house that his great-great
grandfather lived in and there's deep
poverty around him in a way that wasn't
there a generation ago so even as our
coastal financial centers and of course
our political center Washington have
thrived the rest the country has
withered in measurable ways and Trump's
message was basically that not everyone
has benefited equally again cuz I'm not
you know what I mean because I'm very
much a product of the world I'm writing
about I thought well that's kind of a
you know you're right you're making a
good point so he was aiming his message
at them and the system from which they
were benefiting and so they were more if
I didn't I get that
what I don't understand is why they
never paused for one second to ask why
this happened that is a bizarre reaction
I don't care how horrible and unexpected
an event is at some point you ask
yourself why it happened particularly if
it happened to you because the obvious
question was am i implicated in this did
I do something to cause this if you wake
up and your wife has run off with the
mailman and he weighs 70 pounds more
than you and makes half as much
obviously your first reaction is she's
horrible
how could she do that it's her fault but
a certain point you think to yourself
well wait a second if I was such a good
husband why would she do that
maybe I did something wrong that's what
a normal self-aware decent person at
some point would ask himself I didn't
expect this to happen it did happen I
didn't welcome it happening how can I
prevent it from happening I'd like to
get remarried maybe I won't repeat the
mistakes that caused wife number one to
run off with the fat mailman Trump is
that mailman
and the voters are his new wife that's
what happened but what's so remarkable
is that the abandoned husband thinks
he's totally blameless in fact you know
what Putin made a run off with the
mailman that is really what's going on
we are watching and I unfortunately am
living firsthand this kind of very
predictable psychological phenomenon of
guilt transference were the people who
did this absolutely refused to entertain
the prospect that they're in any way
culpable for it happening it wasn't me
it was them or was voters that's my
favorite explanation voters voters did
this why well cuz they're racist duh
well they're just they're horrible
they're just immoral and I thought well
you know I don't know I mean it's
America's a cross-section like any group
of people but I covered the campaign I
never met a single person who you know
saw the Access Hollywood tape and said
you know what he speaks for me I was
kind of on the fence until this came out
and I realized that's my guy right there
people didn't vote for Trump because of
his shortcomings they voted for him in
spite of those shortcomings in order
that his election would send a crystal
clear message to the people in charge
and not just of our political system but
also of our economic institutions our
cultural institutions our education
system they sent it's the system the
ongoing scam that we're all
participating in where we spend 60 grand
a year to have our kids hate us and the
values that made this all possible
I have four of them so don't get me
going all of the people controlling the
levers of power or implicit including I
mean the media yeah
well I'm part of that too so my fear is
my honest and this is a sincere fear is
it that they won't get the message and
won't seek to remedy the underlying
problems that gave rise to the populism
we're living through right now I just
want to say it again for the third time
I'm not for populism I think Trump was a
needed message to the people in charge
I agree with about 9 much more than I
ever thought I would of his message much
more but I also recognize that political
turmoil hurts the country long term or
another way to put it would be the only
reason that we have such a robust
economy in a vibrant civil society and
have for 250 years - for where we had
some conflict but the only reason we
have all these things that make us the
place everyone else wants to move is
because we have had for centuries this
stable political system upon which all
these other things were built we built
them because we didn't have to worry
about everything changing in Washington
dramatically and that really is the
difference between US and other places
we have a stable political system
therefore we can build a great
civilization you don't therefore you
can't I mean that is the difference in a
lot of ways I went to Venezuela as a kid
Caracas and it was a pretty nice place
actually and the Venezuelans and don't
anyone lie to you totally impressive you
know huge middle class by regional
standards in 1980 capable well-educated
people by the way they're all in Miami
thriving as they like they didn't have
human capital in Venezuela are you
kidding they had way more than a lot of
other countries in the region natural
resources yet check largest known oil
reserves yeah they had that what they
also had was an economic system that
excluded a huge percentage of the
population which is the rule by the way
through human history okay one of the
things that I always hated about
liberals they're always whining about
unfairness which for the last 40 years
I've always thought well that's baked in
the cake because life is unfair whining
about it as like a college dorm room
exercise it doesn't you know what I mean
does it gonna get you anywhere what I
didn't understand was that unfairness
only works if you don't give everyone
the vote democracy is the new ingredient
in this formula and that's what I think
we don't spend enough time thinking
about I couldn't be a greater proponent
of democracy I think it is actually the
key to our stability
the idea that if you don't like the
system you can change it peacefully by
voting is what keeps us from volatility
it's what keeps us from storming the
Bastille or torching the police station
or acting like Portland Oregon sorry no
I actually love Portland it's sad um
some pro-democracy but if you have
democracy which by the way has not been
tried very often throughout human
history we went from like the Roman
Republic till our Revolution with no
democracy so it's not like there's a
long track record of it working there
isn't common sense tells you if you have
a democracy if you give every person an
equal franchise in your political system
a vote then you have to make sure that
they at least feel enfranchised
in other ways in other words if you give
everyone the vote you can't tell people
to just shut up and obey because you'll
infuriate them and they will punish you
by electing a populist to get your
attention and if you continue to not pay
attention they'll elect another and
another and you may not perceive it's
happening because these populist will
arise under the cloak of some ideology
or other so in Venezuela people woke up
in like wait what is a second nine
families control the entire economy
let's elect you go Chavez and the rest
of us look to this city oh wow why is
socialism resurging in Latin America I
thought we all knew that didn't work
look at Cuba didn't work what we missed
was that's not socialism it's populism
it's exactly what that was they could
dress it up under you know whatever kind
of headline you want but the truth is
that is a how will love rage from people
who feel like they don't have a stake in
the society you need to keep people in
franchised
in your society we're all in this
together and the way you do that in a
normal country is with a vibrant
self-sustaining independent middle class
that's the only circumstance under which
you can have a functioning democracy is
if you have the majority the country is
bourgeoisie they're sort of normal
working people who feel like their kids
might do a little better than they are
doing if you cease to have that Wow
you can wind up with something very bad
and that's exactly what happened to
Caracas where there's no eating zoo
animals and have no toilet paper it's
bad so I don't think it's gonna happen
here but I also think Trump is
a sign to the rest of us you need to
address the core economic issues that
underlie all of this and I'm not certain
of the answers because again I'm just a
talk-show host but I'm pretty good at
diagnosing obvious problems and this is
an obvious problem so in 2015 the middle
class ceased to be a majority in this
country for the first time in over 100
years I mean except that we can't even
know that its extent you know accurate
records about wages have been kept it's
always been a majority middle class
country it stopped being one in 2015 so
I'm thinking what was I doing in 2015 oh
I was on TV every day as a news guy
presumably I would have caught that Newt
no no one noticed because we're busy
argue about bathrooms or some other sort
of distraction we're busy listening to
some other bloviating demagogue you know
make racial attacks on some group that's
right man okay and and I thought to
myself well maybe all of that stuff is a
cover a distraction for the real
conversation that we ought to be having
which is what do you do for normal
people and I mean literally normal
people I mean people you know that like
don't live in our you know like let's
say you make 70 grand a year and have an
IQ of a hundred and three kids that's a
good normal person
your society should be structured in
such a way that that person can thrive
not because I've ever met that person
but a country is based on that person
and without that part if that person
thinks that his kids are gonna be in
much worse shape than he is and there's
no hope for them that person's scary
right it's one step from there to
nihilism so you need to organize your
society so that guy he's okay this is
like a basic concept in fact we had an
entire political party based on that
concept for like 80 years was called the
Democratic Party remember that I was
never a member of it
I had contempt for them I thought they
were silly but looking back it was good
to have that party that party doesn't
exist that party represents two groups
two very rich and the people wholly
dependent on government that is part of
the realignment we're now
and I see them my own family I mean I
have relatives who you know on the
affluent side voted Republican since
well Lincoln like since it started a
friend of mine is a Democratic pollster
always says they had a name for his
whole career he's almost 60 among
pollsters of both parties for
college-educated white Americans they
were called Republicans it was the other
word for them because they voted
overwhelmingly Republican and now of
course go through Presidio Heights in
fact my cousin lives there right on you
know those houses that are right on
Presidio you can picture that in one of
those and she's screaming right winger
whoa love her uh she says she's the only
one in her zip code that she's aware of
who voted for Donald Trump I mean think
about that my grandparents lived right
there right there on one side the other
side they lived in Green Street cific
right you know nice neighborhoods I mean
they wouldn't consider voting Democrat
remember when Democrats showed the
Republican parties the country club
party and the public that's not true was
totally true let's be honest was totally
true okay
it was completely true we used to scoff
at it poolside at the Country Club
that's not true
bring me another bourbon anyway that was
totally true what happened is that the
affluent people who are benefiting under
our totally brand-new economic rules
brand-new economic rules where labor is
basically irrelevant the value of labor
shrunk like nothing okay so people in
the knowledge or digital economy whoever
we're calling it and then the service
economy at the other side they all went
to the Democratic Party so that left
what everyone else those normal people
the middle class remember that wage
earners so the Republican Party if smart
would have said well wait a second just
as a math question if we just lost our
base you know what I mean like everyone
at the club
oh my everyone I went to school with
they're all Democrats now turn to my
relatives too offensively makes for a
very difficult Thanksgiving
all those people have moved it and I'm
sure some of your children you know
exactly what I'm talking about do you
know what I mean you sent him to
Thatcher and Stanford you think they're
gonna be conservative I knew wrong sorry
if that sorry if that's too close to the
bone but the other party might say well
wait a second maybe we take everybody
else but honestly I mean I live there so
I can just tell you I know everybody in
this world because that's what I do
their reaction was what the American
middle class know we're blackballing
them and membership committee like no
chance are we letting them in and the
only reason the Republican part of what
you're watching is a realignment where
the Republican Party becomes the middle
class party and Trump's singular
contribution to this whole thing was
forcing that he's a blunt instrument
he's a fight King I'm serious he showed
up at the Republican Party like a long
hair matted beard he torched all their
huts he slayed their livestock I'm not
kidding carried their women over his
shoulder back to his longboat and rode
back to Norway I mean he really pillaged
the Republican Party and with him came
hordes of middle class people so all of
a sudden if you're if you're wondering
where all the drama is and all the kind
of it's like you know Episcopalian
Christmas dinner where there's lots of
unspoken resentment and it takes a very
high level of drunkenness for to come
out you know what I mean what are you
thinking about honey you never loved me
I know you know nothing about that but
um I've lived it if that's what's going
on the Republican Party right now
there's all this anger so you know on
stage Paul Ryan Speaker of the House is
like oh yeah Donald Trump I love Donald
Trump you know he hates Donald Trump
hates him
what's that really about that's what
it's about it's changing the composition
and the orientation of a major American
political parties not easy because it's
the Republican Party it's taking place
sort of in this passive aggressive way
but the outlines will be very clear I
would say two or three election cycles
from now and by the way that's a good
thing it's a good thing parties in and
I'll stop with this and take your hoster
questions but parties
well I'll keep going no I'm sorry I'm
just a guy get into free association
mode and you don't even go there but the
point is parties only exist
literally oh I'm not over saying they
literally only exist to represent their
voters but New Hampshire primary I'm
sitting getting a haircut that much
Mountain Club was men's club in DC where
I go for lunch with my dad my brother
great place very staid and I go in to
get my hair cut and I said the barber
there's nobody here where is everybody
there's a caller in New Hampshire for
Jeb of course like the entire Club like
emptied out and they all sort of took a
day off from the law firm to fly up to
Manchester to give it the old try for
Jeb well you know she's fine I'm not
taking Jeb that's kind of interesting so
I'm sitting I get my haircut and this
guy walks in who's actually a very
well-known guy and a very good guy who's
a Republican Party official and it's
kind of a moderate Republican stronghold
in Washington and we're sitting I said
man it looks like Trump is like and I
was leaving that day for Manchester's
looks like Trump's gonna do pretty well
he's like what I said what if he gets
the nomination because we could get the
nomination I said I know but what if he
does like you never know I mean it's a
little weird Donald Trump the New York
Post headline guy is gonna be the
nominee the Republican Party but like it
could happen because we weren't gonna
let that happen I said what are you
gonna do he just would take it from the
convention and at the time my thinking
on this was evolving because you know I
didn't catch a lot of this stuff I'm
just watching and but I remember saying
to him like what do you mean I gonna
take it from him is it really yours to
do you own the Republican nomination
do you own the Republican Party or just
some I didn't say this out loud but I'm
saying you're just like some functionary
who lives in my neighborhood you don't
own the party its voters own the party
don't they like by definition no no we
can't okay Donald Trump is the nominee
they never stopped thinking that which
again I understand I try to be an
empathetic person what I don't
understand is why they don't understand
the effect on the rest of the country of
doing that what you're basically saying
to people is your worst fears are true
but going into eight-year-olds room
being like I'm sorry Bobby there
actually is a mom
Stremme you're under your bed there it's
those snuffling noises that's totally
wrong it's not a screw tree scratching
against the window it's a monster with
sharp teeth and pools of saliva waiting
to eat you the second I leave just so
you know sleep tight
that really is the message so out there
and the rest of the country outside
where I live people like wait a second
they say it's a democracy but I noticed
no matter who I vote for no one ever
does what I want them to do like I'm not
an extremist an immigration like I'm for
immigrants but shouldn't you have
control of your own borders and if you
don't how are you a country exactly
you're not
it's a definitional question countries
have territorial control of land period
doesn't mean you exclude everybody it
means you decide who comes that's it
if I invite 10 people over to dinner at
my house and Saturday night is called a
dinner party if 10 people have never
heard of show up and start eating my
food it's something very different it's
not a dinner party and if I say to them
leaving they're like shut up racist then
we have something very very different
okay and it's not something that you
want actually but I'm totally happy to
have 10 people over for dinner I just
want to have a say in who they are so
it's it's not complex and voters have
been saying that precise thing to
Washington you know only since 1965 you
know not that long
51 years and they totally ignored folk
completely ignore voters and by the way
this is not an esoteric fact that I dug
up in my journey through political
science these are publicly available
polls you can pull up on what we call
the Internet they're available to anyone
who's interested in what the public
thinks we know this conclusively they
thought this for general literally
generations totally ignored same with
trade nobody can test the trade
generates prosperity of course it does
that's not even up for debate what's up
for debate is whether you should sign a
trade deal in which the other
signatories get to cheat without you
saying anything about it well who's for
that exactly well we are turns out so if
you raise your hand and say you know I'm
not against trade but like why is this
good for us shut up you
what are you an economist now hmm oh
yeah did you work at McKenzie where's
your HPS turkey don't have one adults
are talking and actually it's kind of
intimidating as a non-expert isn't
non-economists to like major in russian
history and didn't even graduate I'm
like oh yeah you know I mean I
pronounced in economics I guess whatever
I don't know you're right you're totally
right here's what I do no BS I'll never
forget all I covered the NAFTA debate of
1994 of course I was totally on the side
of NAFTA because I'm on the side of
progress and on the side of trade
actually and I still AM but I'll never
forget the one part of that debate that
bothered me at the time and bothers me
immensely now was the line Universal
from everyone I knew that this trade
agreement will be good for everyone
there's no one who won't benefit from
this now again I'm demonstrably not an
economist okay but I do pay attention to
life and I thought at the time as I
think now that that is a lie by
definition if someone tells you that
something is all good that it's an
unalloyed positive from which everyone
will benefit he's lying but I mean if
you wake up and you find something that
is all good you are dead actually and
you have gone to a better place but in
this temporal existence nothing is all
good everything is a mixed blessing it's
somewhat better than it is not you try
to go for the thing that's better than
not better okay but that's as good as
you're gonna get here's the problem
continuously lying about the effects of
policies to the public that pays for
those policies and has to live their
consequences creates deep and profound
resentment if you tell people this is
gonna happen and it doesn't happen and
you tell them that enough they're really
mad if you think you're getting a pony
for Christmas and you get a bag of hair
you never forget it
you're telling your therapist about it
30 years later okay
and that's what we've done I understand
but what's infuriating and this last my
last sentence and critically what will
ensure future cycles of volatility
cycles that we should all be concerned
about is the unwillingness of
policymakers to admit any of this
we caught you you won't pay attention so
we elected an orange guy to get your
attention and you're still not paying
attention who are we going to elect next
so it's super important they pay
attention and with that I will stop
thank you
you mentioned the four-year interlude
you use the word volatility we have
formerly serious people senator
Feinstein Eric Holder questioning the
legitimacy of the Supreme Court yes we
do am i alarmist to be concerned about
that sort of thing
I don't think you're alarmist at all I
mean what we just did
my producer Emily Lynn's here I think
she could confirm so I think we did 16
leads in a row first segments in a row
on the Brett Kavanaugh confirmation and
we did that because it was a story in
the news was not the only story in the
news but I found it overriding lis
significant for the following reason not
because of any personal loyalty to Brett
Kavanaugh whom I haven't spoken to
literally since 1998 when he worked for
Ken Starr and you know I don't know I
don't know anything about Brett
Kavanaugh other than what I read in the
paper and he seems you know probably not
the most conservative guy you could
nominate the Supreme Court so like I
don't have any stake in this what I
found of critical importance for our
viewers I think for all Americans was
the reaction to that you have a sitting
United States Senator mazie Hirono of
Hawaii which is technically a state
saying into a television camera without
any trace of embarrassment if you are
accused of a crime it is incumbent upon
you to prove yourself innocent and then
I thought why had a lot of relatives in
Hawaii in Hanalei Bay in fact my
grandmother from Oakland lived out her
days Kauai yeah boy and it's caught it's
a little flaky honestly in the marijuana
very very high so then I'm like okay
it's Hawaii then I see Chris Coons of
Delaware who's so sober minded and
boring no one can remember his name
looking into a camera and a very precise
guy Yale Law School graduate I mean this
is not some flaky Hawaiian this is not
Neil Abercrombie's cousin this is like a
real guy looking into the you know I
remember Neil ever coming looking into
the Cameron saying that's exactly right
senator Hirono if accused it's up to you
to prove you didn't do it and I'm
thinking that's an inversion of the
standard that has been universal since
Rome with the exceptions of the medieval
period when we had the kind of trial by
fire or trial by dunking Thrall men if
he floats he's innocent if he drowns
he's he's guilty like that's a medieval
tech this is a threat not simply to the
nomination of one guy or the Supreme
Court River but to our understanding the
Western understanding of justice itself
and these are a lawmaker saying our
children and grandkids are gonna have to
live here if they have to live in a
country where you have to prove your
innocence or else you're punished
there's no reason to be here
that is that is the cornerstone of our
whole continent so people move here if
you're asking anybody who's just like
arrived from Burkina Faso
I'm sure why'd you leave Wagga dugu it's
a lovely place economic opportunity verb
utt know in the United States I'm a free
man
and you can't imprison me unless you can
show that I did it and that's the moment
I realized I guess I am a liberal
because I remember liberals when I was a
kid saying stuff like it's better than
10 guilty men go free then one innocent
man is imprisoned I was like oh shut up
liberals and now I'm thinking yeah
because punishing the innocent really is
the worst thing and this is not a legal
test this is a human test this is how
you define not simply you know whether
or not your your judicial system is on
the level this is where you determine
whether you're a fair and decent person
so that's when I realized I'm gonna stop
getting caught up in a lot of these
flashy objects that arise before us like
what do you think of Esther's tomy
Daniels
yeah okay what I care about are the
fundamentals free speech due process how
we treat other people all of that is
under attack by a party that sees only
one thing power which is its goal and
doesn't care how it achieves it now I
don't think this is gonna last forever
hopefully the revolution will end soon
and we can all go back to being normal
and not think about politics all the
time but for this moment that we're
living in we need to defend those things
above and beyond any individual has been
nominated to anything so anyway that's a
long-winded answer to a short question
but that's alright yes ma'am
I Tucker love your show thank you I'm
from Chicago and my husband's actually
from Venezuela oh he's right here one of
the impressive Venezuelans I was talking
up here he's the middle class that have
fled the country yeah we moved to
California three years ago so we did not
grow up here and we see the changes when
we moved here we're like what's going on
here and we see the socialistic nature
and the ideology here the question we
have is who do you think is
orchestrating this because we see it in
the schools my eight-year-old came home
the other day he said mom is social just
as bad there's like you know the Walnut
Creek School District has East Bay have
a lot of these propaganda posters in the
school district my eight-year-old is
asking me this and thank God for Prager
you and your show because I I'm
indoctrinating them to be conservative
children good but who is orchestrating
this progressive socialistic movement
throughout our country that my husband's
always asking me that has to be coming
from somewhere well where is it coming I
don't know if I've spent a lot of time
thinking about this and of course there
are pivotal players in all of this you
know exactly their names and their
people who are funding it but I think
that a lot of it is organic what you're
looking at is very large well relatively
small but but in terms of the power it
wields a large group of people who have
decided that they despise the
civilization that made all of that they
have possible now there's a
psychological explanation for this which
I sincerely believe which I'm not going
to bore you
but I mean it's sort of like here's the
way to think of it and this may resonate
with some people in the audience you may
have seen families that possess
multi-generational wealth and you may
have noticed a certain very recognizable
pattern there's not Universal but it's
it's common enough that you'll know what
I'm talking about the first generation
people who made it are sort of
hard-nosed smartFocus second generation
yeah that little less Oh third
generation honestly not that impressive
fourth generation wrapping a Lamborghini
around the tree at the club okay
it's that generation that didn't work
for what it has that takes for granted
all the things that made its material
comforts possible that tends to be
deeply ashamed of its own wealth if you
know what I'm talking about you will
almost never meet anybody who worked for
25 years to incrementally build a
company and then got rich at the end
slagging capitalism never because that
guy earned what he has but if you live
in a world full of inherited wealth
which I do and always have you'll meet a
lot of people who are going on about
capitalism really because you've never
practice it in your life you're living
paying half the tax rate that I pay
because we tax capital at half the rate
of labor as you well know in my rate and
you're sitting around you hate yourself
because you're a loser who got your
money without putting in the required
effort and you're filled with guilt
about it multiply that times a whole
ruling class that's exactly what you
have so you never meet anybody like who
came here from one of the things I
really like I mean I think we should
control who comes here for sure but when
you see successful immigrants you never
hear them say anything like that
you never hear them going on about
social gel you're married to one what am
I saying I'm sorry I don't tell you that
exactly because they know how valuable
the things that our ancestors built are
that's why they came here to partake of
them our justice system our civil
society our economy these things didn't
arise overnight people gave their lives
to build them our freedom of speech
we're the only country
world with the First Amendment that's
worth a lot they get it but people who
grew up here and have been bathed in
generational affluence are filled with
this corrosive self-hating guilt and you
see it everywhere so it's not just that
George Soros is funding this though he
is it's that like kindergarten teachers
across the country buy into it and what
is the answer I'll tell you what the
answer is let's not participate in this
I can tell you I mean that you know let
me put it this way if you were you know
of any other group if your kids went to
school and all of a sudden the teacher
was telling them like you know you're
bad your group is bet you would go in I
mean if a gay couple
showed up at school and the teachers
like you know gay couples are terrible
the parents be like what no I'm not
putting up with this in my kids schools
you know overpriced Episcopal dumb
schools the parents sit there while the
teachers are like yeah everything you
stand for is terrible and we're telling
your kids at the teacher and the parents
really like you okay and by the way can
I have an extra 20 grand on top of
tuition just as a kind of guilt offering
okay so this last year my wife who's you
know daughter of an Episcopal priest
very moderate person politically has
been driven completely over the edge by
what's happening and she says to me I'm
out I said my wife is kind of liberal
I've been married 28 years I never
thought a verse concerned she's like you
know what I'm not gonna use profanity so
I'm not gonna say exact what you said
I'm sick of this crap
I'm not you know how you know about your
giving 0 her father's an Episcopal
priest is an Episcopal School like no
I'm not funding us anymore
they hate us they hate our family that
hid our values we're opting out and I'm
like good for you and by the way I just
can't overstate what you were here so I
could like pointed out to you like
that's the last person who would say
something like that but she said why
would we fund an organization that is
teaching our children to hate us and our
values are we masochists are we insane
the number of parents who do that
including my family I just admitted it
without thinking about it or without
feeling like they can opt out is like
terrifying I see these parents like oh
my kids going to you know Princeton or
whatever all so proud of it it's like
really you really said you can do what
they're learning it Prince
is it making them better I mean this is
in the humanities okay if you're going
to whatever Cal the study engineering
you know god bless you but if you're
going to study you know interpretive
feminist dance it's not making your kid
better actually it's hurting your child
and you're paying for it because you
feel like you have no choice what we
need is a growing population of upper
income well-educated people who say I've
had it I'm not gonna dig my family's
grave for you that's how I feel like the
stakes are really really high we lie to
ourselves and say they're not high Oh
it'll be fine and the last thing I'll
say really quick the mistake that I made
is I felt like as a conservative who is
a libertarian temperament I've no desire
to control other people it's just how
I'm made I didn't want to like
propagandize my kids and I would and my
kids are actually they've been so driven
crazy by liberals that all four of them
are kind of conservative just because I
sent him to Episcopal school so like I
don't know what that is but I'm not into
it okay but I wish I had been more
systematic and less ashamed of my own
beliefs with my children and sat them
down and said here are the things that
we as a family belief and we're not like
everybody else
all the other families to Walnut Creek
they're nice people but we don't agree
with him on certain things and here's
why I wish I had done that and were too
ashamed to do that I can do the left
does it every night at dinner it's like
everyone else is in the Klan except us
I'm serious and they raise generations
of extremists
I don't want extremists in my house but
I want people who understand what our
family believes and why we're a little
different from everyone else at Walnut
Creek or Atherton or wherever you live
there's nothing wrong with that we
should do that amen hey Tucker
self-deprecation aside I just want to
make a quick comment and then a question
you are an incredible mind and quite an
intellectual in my opinion and one of
the best intellectuals on TV you know
that's a low bar
perhaps but but unlike some of the
intellectual deep thinkers you actually
add humor to yours and you never talk
down to people so that's what's so
endearing about you and your personality
and I just wanted to well I appreciate
that thank you
secondly I wanted to just ask you a
question because you know on this whole
issue of Trump you know here we have a
man that's literally viscerally hated
from Democrats from Republicans and leaf
at least half of them from his own DOJ
and spy agencies from the media and yet
what he's accomplished in less than two
years is astounding
and so my question is is is there I mean
can this just continue this sort of
astounding success with Trump or is
there a sort of a high mark that are we
at the high mark or what so that's it I
mean that's obviously a key question and
I wish I could foresee
I wish shake sorry yeah I mean I wish I
could foresee the answer in fact I just
had a very in the interesting thing
about we was in San Francisco this
afternoon the interesting thing about
this area and about all places where the
liberal culture is so overwhelming and
oppressive is that it makes for a much
smarter brand of conservative I will say
that's what I always notice that I'm out
here
is it the people who dissent from the
orthodoxy here have been forced to
really think through what they believe
they're not doing it because like all
their neighbors are doing it they're
doing it because they really believe it
and they know why they believe it which
is so great and I by the way I see the
opposite too and overwhelmingly liberal
areas everyone's just like I don't know
you don't mean like I'm a good person
you're not right right okay yeah there's
something about being challenged that
makes you sharper steel on steel so I
was talking to an extremely smart tech
executive secret conservative today
about this exact really secret trust me
about this exact question and I asked
him because he's smarter than I am
what do you think's gonna happen and he
said I don't know but I'll tell you one
thing is that things will never be the
same and the reason is really simple
because Trump whether he can achieve his
goals or not has done the one thing you
need to do in order to achieve anything
which is name it he's named it this is
why they hate him actually because Trump
is the guy who and sometimes in this
kind of autistic Weibull just say it
they'll just say it no I'm not side with
the vulgar stuff I mean the obvious
stuff I sought this summer we were in in
Finland for his summit with Putin and no
I'm not an expert on this stuff you know
at all I was a big Cold War guy I'd like
Europe was a long time in Europe but I'm
not I'm hardly an expert on post-war
institutions in Europe but I've often
wondered like what what is that and I'm
not against NATO I'm for NATO I guess I
was always as a child very for NATO
because it was of course it was the
thing standing between civilization and
darkness right but the purpose of NATO
was to keep the Soviets for invading
Western Europe and the Soviet Union
collapsed in August of 1991 I remember
cuz I was on my honeymoon in Bermuda
I'll never forget it so that was well I
just had my 27th anniversary so that was
like quite some time ago so why don't we
still have NATO and I thought this
because Trump asked it in his Trump be
noise I go out why we have NATO
and everyone's like you're a tool of
Putin be quiet and I thought why is
everyone so mad about that why are they
so angry that he's asking the question
where I can think of 20 other questions
he's asked that infuriate them and
they're angry of course for the same
reason you're angry when one of your
kids asked you a question like that and
the reason is because you can't answer
it so you don't I mean and you like
trying to be a reasonable parent but
they're like you know mommy why are you
doing this you're like well there's a
good reason you don't they goes are the
wife is well why well because there is
you know there's a very good well what's
the reason mommy
mommy wants a glass of wine too quiet
you know what I mean that's exactly
what's happening you because our ruling
class lacks self-awareness or humility
or empathy and they do trust me they
don't feel the need to examine any of
their most basic assumptions even the
ones that obviously might be outdated
and so I guess my point is we're not
gonna solve and Trump is not going to
solve the question of what do we do with
Naida we have this infrastructure I
don't believe in destroying things it
could be useful we probably do something
with NATO you know important but what is
that thing
it's not keeping the Soviets from
invading Western Europe because there
are no Soviets but now that he has set
it out loud it can't be unsaid
that's the beauty once Trump has been
like well why shouldn't we have borders
or why shouldn't we build a wall
everyone right lives in a loft a wall so
I remember I was in Jennifer's igloo why
not a wall well cuz a wall taller
ladders okay but what if you build a
super high wall I'll be quiet okay well
what's the answer shut up it's like so
there's certain mean if you think of
Trump as you should think of everything
as part of a continuum you know because
the key mistake that people make is
imagining that the future is exactly
like right now it never is it's totally
dynamic everything will be different in
the year but if you think it's from that
way as a marker on a much longer time
line Trump is the guy who started a
series of essential conversations and
allowed reform to have
and just by naming the absurdities of
the way we do things so it's kind of
Awesome actually so if you think of it
that way as my genius friend said to me
today it's like yeah he's one guy he's
zero control of his own government
none totally ignore him and he's not
from our world so it's very hard to
manage any agency try like X number of
them three million executive branch
employees like no all of whom hate him
and in a union whose whole purpose is to
defeat him yeah probably not gonna
happen but doesn't need to happen
because once he said those things we
will talk about them until they're
resolved so that actually made me feel
so good did you Naveen and but but we're
so trained to be like what you said
you're gonna do this like hurry up and
do it you got 12 minutes it's like no
you don't you got another generation I
kind of have a personal question yes
ma'am on how you how you debate people
that you so opposed and you keep your
composure and your smile and your nice
and I was talking with someone tonight
that I have a lot of disagreements with
and and we kind of did it but how how
did you do it how would you trained to
keep your composure on your your nightly
show I don't know
thank you
I mean I just think I think a couple
things one I always try to remind myself
you know I've got five hours a week I
don't have to decisively win every
debate or crush every app um you know
what I mean like I don't I don't have to
do that I don't want to do that actually
I want to say what I think and I want to
air the other side and I want to let
people decide again I my temper
not a libertarian I should say that but
my temperament is libertarian look I
think it's okay to throw the ideas out
there and people can assess like what do
you think makes sense what do you think
of that tell me what's your argument
I actually that's my job that's what I
do other people have different jobs you
know other people in TV or in the I
didn't I mean I just feel that way I
sincerely feel that way I don't think I
had a woman on tonight was the most
interesting segment I've done in a long
time where she came on just a
well-educated but I didn't ask where she
went to college but I'm sure she went
somewhere way more impressive than I did
not that that's hard
I went to Trinity College in Hartford
Connecticut go whatever the mascot is
but she was a well-educated person
clearly affluent I could spot that you
know mile away a perfect teeth you know
whatever so she's sort of the best that
we have in this you know she's kind of
like what our society produces at the
top end bet you a million dollars or you
know she's one rich family obviously and
I said so she's saying that Susan
Collins the kind of liberal Republican
from Maine should have some honorary
degree revoked because she voted in
favor of Brett Cavanaugh that's fine
okay whatever but she said she should
have it revoked because she lacks
integrity for voting for for Brett
Kavanaugh and I just couldn't get over
that I was thinking about our laughter I
was like so you may disagree with the
vote you think he shouldn't be on the
court you believe you know whatever
Kristine Ford or not but she lacks
integrity because she reached a
different conclusion from the one you
reached is that really what you're
saying and should shorten the cameras
because that's what I'm saying
I said so you're saying that you don't
give the people you talk to the
presumption of decency know anyone who
disagrees with me is a bad person
what that's what they think I do not
think that I am NOT them and I'm never
going to be them because that's
soul destroying and I don't care if
every person on planet Earth disagrees
with me I'm not going to become that
person because the consequences of that
are too profound and but I have a wife
who doesn't like it the other thing and
so the one thing that my wife always
says she's become she went from the sort
of moderate Republicans last short a
liberal person to like you know an
intense Fox viewer all it took was
Barack Obama was a high cost anyway but
the only criticism she ever levels it me
and she's like don't get mad you know
you don't look good when you're mad and
I don't know anyone who does look good
when mad by the way does it does anyone
improve with anger no right and I would
say exactly so to the last thing I would
say is that I also allow and you should
always allow for the possibility that
someone can change your mind and that
doesn't happen a ton since I think about
this stuff for a living but there have
been many cases where over the many the
22 years I've hosted TV shows where
someone will come on and say something
to be like mm hmm wait what I
interviewed a vegan the other night okay
I'm going for a steak after this just to
be totally clear but I ain't fit I won't
get into it but this vegan guy comes on
and I'm like you Wimpy little vegan you
know what I mean and I was like doing
the whole like you know I don't have to
slap you around a little bit you know
what I mean and this guy totally can
tighten Faison was mocking him he
totally kept his comedy so ya know
actually at someone's about it's about
animals and I love animals and I thought
well I love animals too you know I have
two spaniels in my bed every night he's
like you know maybe you should think
about this if you love animals and he
kind of I'm not sure I don't agree I'm
having a steak tonight but it was a
totally legitimate argument and he was a
totally decent guy I could just feel it
when you're with someone you get a very
different vibe so I'm sitting at my desk
I've got all my papers I'm reading about
this that on that person I think I just
I despise that how could they say that
and then like one out of five times I'm
like actually I kind of like that check
or whatever he's looking as good guy or
what you just get the vibe and I always
want to be the person who lets the
person be the most important thing I'm
an ideas guy and you know half of my
head all the time
but I want my feelings about the person
to play a role because I want people to
matter because I want to be humane
at the end of the day so at the end of
that segment I was like hey vegan guy
you know I kind of invited John to be
mean to you but you know go vegan guy
kind of you know what I mean and I felt
great about that I really did
I like seeing a common humanity I like
learning stuff they're big issues of I
mean big issues I've changed my mind I I
won't bore you with it but like where
someone made a systematic argument to me
and had it and that argument was so
powerful that I rethought my own ideas
about it which most of the time turned
out to be more reactions than ideas and
I came over to that side like that's
what it is to be human that's why we're
not that's why we're better than the
robots that will inevitably replace us I
would say I have time for one more
question okay yes ma'am okay uh first of
all let me tell you how much we enjoy
your show well thank you you know you're
really wonderful okay my question is
this we used to be a country that was a
melting pot yes we have become a country
that is a mosaic yes I know and your
show has brought up the point that you
are looking into what makes an American
that's right
and I will be so interested to be
hearing what you have to say about that
because I mean if if we're a mosaic and
we're what is it that makes us an
American it's really the other thing
just one quick second that I thought was
very interesting is that you could
become a citizen in China you can become
a citizen in Canada Mexico but you're
not considered Chinese you're not
considered Mexican only in America are
you considered an American so what makes
us an American so great that is what
you're gonna answer for it what's show
you interesting thank you thank you very
much and this is actually where my
Californian upbringing
multi-generational really am and I can't
overstate how much I was steeped in
California and its history and sort of
the ethos of California in my childhood
was very strong like we were
Californians and we vacationed
we crossed the cal-neva line into
incline we'd be like oh man out of
California can't wait to get back but
the thing about California and my
childhood was we people are staying now
I know it was Nevada then it's now
Nevada but whatever anyway my point is
the thing about California then was even
my family which is really in its own
head anyway like native Californians
extent they're native Californians but
we really felt that way we still the
whole idea of California was an idea and
like you bought I mean that's why the
West was different from what we called
back east where I now live where people
were totally like constipated and caught
up in their rituals from seriously from
the 17th century you know what I mean
like we were about this idea and if you
bought into California like come on you
know you're one of us like all my
friends parents were from like Milwaukee
literally as you know there weren't many
people at my parents age who were born
in the state so I bring that set of
assumptions to my show that America is
an idea but in order for it to work
everyone has to buy into the idea and as
I age I understand the weakness inherent
in that system it can work but you have
to be really thoughtful about it
I mean countries you know this idea and
I took an enormous amount of criticism
for saying it but this slogan that
everyone throws out diversity is our
strength is a lie and it doesn't mean by
the way let me just say diversity is
neither good nor bad
I'm not against diversity I'm not for it
it's a state that's neutral morally but
it's definitely not our strength is that
true in your marriage the less you have
in common with your wife the closer you
are are you super close if you don't
share a common language is it true in
your company like no one can agree on
what we're supposed to be doing
therefore we're really successful is it
true in a military unit it's insane
actually and so again that's not an
argument against diversity I'm not
against it it's just a reminder that if
you want to have a
tree that's cohesive that doesn't fall
apart and wind up at war with itself you
need to find a unifying belief that
everyone buys into and new arrivals are
required to buy into and I think the
Bill of Rights is a good place to start
and so if you bring people over and the
next thing you know they're like I don't
think we need freedom of speech in this
country now which and I've interviewed a
million people who've been here about 20
minutes who are lecturing me about why
freedom of speech is like immoral Oh a
hundred percent a hundred percent that
when the imperatives of diversity and
freedom of expression collide diversity
wins
like literally those are the segments
are I have trouble keeping my temper
because it was just such an outrage
prima facie that someone show up in your
country start lecturing you about your
ancient traditions and telling you
they're immoral first well that's just
offensive but more to the point it's a
threat to our existence as a cohesive
country we need and by the way this is
the job of the ruling class look if
you're in charge of any if you're
charged with a family is I am then you
need to figure out what are you know
what's there six of us what do we all
believe like what are our traditions
like what are we about what does it mean
to be one of my kids and every Christmas
day we go to a Chinese restaurant in
downtown DC even though we're Protestant
everyone else is Jewish or Chinese but
we go and that's what we do did you
don't I mean and that's what it means to
be one of my kids you go to Tony Chang's
Mongolian barbecue every Christmas Day
and that's the decision I made as the
head of my family Jesus it I'm saying
and my kids are like what does it mean
to be one of the Carlson's or well we go
to Tony Chang's or like the nine you
know what I mean and that's what we
believe that's what leaders do they set
the terms for the group and our leaders
because they are totally inadequate to
the job in front of them have refused to
do that and what you're getting is
something whose consequences we will all
suffer which is disunion
so I mean in my tiny role as a cable
host of one show I just want to be a
voice to remind people that no diversity
it's not bad it's definitely not our
strength let's find what our strength is
thank you
you
[Music]